### Documentation Navigation
[<< Development](DEVELOPMENT.md) | [^ ReadMe ^](../README.md) | [Frontend >>](FRONTEND.md)

## S3

In production, the application uses the Amazon Web Services's Simple Storage Service (AWS S3) to store user uploaded PDF attachments. Credentials for S3 are delivered to the application through the <b>VCAP_SERVICES</b> environment variable on the Cloud environment. These credentials are passed to a python package, <b>boto3</b>, which integrates with the AWS S3 API and provides an S3 client to interact with the S3 instance. 

The <i>/files/</i> module within the Django app provides a series of redirect endpoints for accessing the S3 instance. See [API](API.md) for more information. 

When run locally or in a container, the file uploads are stored in the local file system at <i>/sinwebapp/files/local_uploads/</i>.

## Current State of Storage Implementation

In its current state, the application is only able to save one file attachment. This is due to the storage being implemented in S3 and the only way to associate a file in S3 with a SIN in the database is through the filename of the stored file. Currently, when a user submits a file attachment, the filename is overwritten with the SIN number and the file extension, i.e. a SIN # 145 submission with a file attachment will have its file saved on S3 with the name <i>"145.pdf"</i>

## Future TODOs

1. The application does not currently verify the mimetype of any files posted to the <i>/files/upload</i> endpoint. This is due to a problem with how the mime-verification happens with the package currently being used to test mime-types, [python-magic](https://pypi.org/project/python-magic/). Because the files are posted in binary form and stored in a file buffer within python, the python-magic mimetype verifier method has to read the buffer and empty it, which leaves the file empty, resulting in an empty file being posted to S3 further along the file upload process. 

2. The application will need to adopt a naming scheme for SIN submissions with multiple attachments, the most obvious being that for a given SIN submission the attachments are numbered, i.e. for a SIN #123 with four attachments, the files can be uploaded to S3 with the filenames "123-1.pdf" "123-2.pdf", "123-3.pdf", "123-4.pdf". Doing in this way will preserve the <i>/files/list/</i> endpoint which filters the S3 bucket by SIN when provided the query parameter <i>sin_number</i>. 

However, there is a possibility that such a naming scheme could lead to unrelated files being returned. For example, the SIN # 11 would return not only "11-1", "11-2", etc., it would also return unrelated attachments like "405-11.pdf", "774-11.pdf" and so-on. Because the S3 method searches for all occurances of the SIN number in the filename string, mixups are possible. 

More thought needs to be given to this particular problem so a better solution can be reached. We can obviously timestamp the filenames for further refinement, which would solve a lot of problems, however we would need to parse the filename string and isolate the SIN numbers on our end, to ensure we are only matching SINs and not occurances of the SIN within another SIN, i.e. making sure searches for SIN #123 don't return SIN #4123 or SIN #989123, etc.

